Before wrapping up this overview of new terms,
let's recap an important part of ethereum known as the Ethereum Virtual Machine or EVM.
The EVM is the machine that powers and runs the ethereum platform.
It's often called the operating system of ethereum.
It's what's responsible for running the thousands of nodes spread across the world.
To do this, all nodes on the ethereum network
run the EVM as well as validating transactions.
This worldwide distributed set of nodes running
the EVM is what we refer to as the world computer.
Almost everything we learned about ethereum so far is possible because of the EVM.
The state of ethereum blockchain is what allows us to
understand things like the account balance of each user,
and it's the EVM that helps manage this.
The accounts we mentioned like EOAs and CAs are connected to the EVM.
Also, every transaction that gets initiated goes through the EVM.
Even the gas it cost to run computations is
calculated by the work done on the Ethereum Virtual Machine.
As the name suggests,
an Ethereum Virtual Machine is a virtual machine that executes code.
Said differently, it's a runtime environment for smart contracts.
In an implementation layer,
it uses a stack-based architecture.
There are several implementations of this already live on the main network.
These are go-ethereum, Parity,
cpp-ethereum, Py-EVM, and others.
These are what allow us to access
the EVM's functionality using different programming languages like Go,
C++, Python, and others.
In this program, we'll be using go-ethereum.
You'll learn a little more about how to get started with go- ethereum a little later.
To start, Geth is a go line implementation of the ethereum protocol.
It is the most common implementation used to interact with the ethereum network.
We think that makes it a great place to start.
But let's get back to the EVM.
On top of everything else we mentioned,
it's also what allows you to run a node to build and deploy smart contracts.
Once a smart contract is written,
it is compiled into two views.
A bytecode view that is machine-readable,
and an assembly view, which is human-readable.
Then this compiled code executes on the EVM,
which executes the logic of your program.
As well as operating the main network,
there's also an isolated portion of the EVM used for testing.
This testing ground is important for smart contracts that need
to verify their quality before going on to the main network.
You'll be using this part of the EVM to test
your code when you start building smart contracts.
So, that's what the EVM is,
and why it's such an important part of ethereum.
It really is the heart of ethereum,
and is responsible for a huge part of what allows us to
build functional applications on the ethereum network.